# DH-Tool.md
TEI 
Name of Tool: TEI
Link to the Tool: https://tei-c.org/
Link to the Abstract or DH project: https://mith.umd.edu/research/early-modern-soundscapes/
Description of Abstract: Early Modern Songscapes is a project exploring the circulation and performance of English Renaissance poetry. The recently released beta version of the project’s site includes a digital exploration of Henry Lawes’s 1653 songbook Ayres and Dialogues. The project is a collaboration between the University of Toronto (UoT), the University of Maryland (UMD), and the University of South Carolina (USC). My role (Raff Viglianti) at MITH for this first exploratory phase has focused on designing a data model and an online viewer for the text and musical score of the songs. Prof. Scott Trudell (UMD) and Prof. Sarah Williams (USC) have contributed to shaping the data model and have carried out the encoding work so far.
Short Description of why this is a DH Tool: Since 1994, libraries, museums, publishers, and individual scholars have used the TEI Guidelines to present texts for online research, teaching, and preservation. In summary, TEI is a foundational tool in the digital humanities. It provides a standardized and structured approach to encoding textual data, enabling researchers to digitally work with, analyze, and preserve textual materials. This DH tool enhances the accessibility and analytical capabilities of humanities scholars, making it an essential tool in this field while facilitating collaboration among diverse institutions and researchers.
